lscpu
Interpretation: Display information about the CPU architecture

lshw
Interpretation: extract detailed information on the hardware configuration of the machine.

sudo lshw
Interpretation: extract detailed information on the hardware configuration of the machine.

hwinfo
Interpretation: hwinfo is used to probe for the hardware present in the system. It can be
used to generate a system overview log which can be later used for support.

hwinfo --short
Interpretation: shows only a quick summary of hardware present in the system.

lspci
Interpretation: displays information about PCI buses in the system and devices connected
to them.

lsusb
Interpretation: Displays information about USB buses in the system and the devices connected
to them. It uses udev's hardware database to associate a full human-readable
name to the vendor ID and the product ID.

inxi
Interpretation: Command line system information script for console and IRC

inxi -fx
Interpretation: Show all CPU flags used, not just the short list

lsblk
Interpretation:lists information about all available or the specified block devices.

df
Interpretation: displays the amount of space available on the file system containing each
file name argument. If no file name is given, the space available on all
currently mounted file systems is shown.

pydf
Interpretation: python script that displays the amount of disk space available on the mounted
filesystems, using different colours for different types of filesystems.

fdisk -l
Interpretation: List the partition tables for the specified devices


free
Interpretation: Display amount of free and used memory in the system


cat /proc/cpuinfo
Interpretation: read the file /proc/cpuinfo to output the processor’s information like cpufamily,
model, microcode, flags, address sizes, cache_allignments,etc.cat /proc/cpuinfo
Interpretation:

cat /proc/meminfo
Interpretation: reads file /proc/meminfo and output the various information of memory
segments of the computer system

uname -v
Interpretation: print the kernel version


uname -r
Interpretation: print the kernel release


uname -a
Interpretation: print all informations like kernel name,network node hostname, kernel
release and version,machine hardware name, processor type,etc.

factor 1203343
Interpretation: print the prime factors of the given numbers, either given from command
line or read from standard inputfactor 1203343

echo ‘3*9’| bc
Interpretation: echo displays the string passed and ‘|’ symbol is used to redirect the
output of echo to arbitrary precision calculator language bc to produce the
product of 3 and 9

echo ‘(6*5)-8’| bc
Interpretation: calculates the give expression and displays in the terminal


id
Interpretation: print real and effective user and group IDs

lsusb | tee lsusb.txt
Interpretation: lsusb outputs all the usb devices and ‘|’ symbol redirects the output of
lsusb into file lsusb.txt

cat lsusb.txt
Interpretation: reads the file lsusb.txt

shutdown
Interpretation: schedule the shutdown of the system after one minute

shutdown now
Interpretation: power-off the machine instantly

shutdown 13:20
Interpretation: This command shuts down the machine at 13:20

shutdown 10
Interpretation: schedule the shutdown of the system after ten minutes

shutdown -r +10
Interpretation: schedule the shutdown of the system after ten minutes

shutdown -c
Interpretation: Cancel a pending or scheduled shutdown.

ping -w 3 google.com
Interpretation: send ICMP ECHO_REQUEST to google.com

netstat
Interpretation: Print network connections, routing tables, interface statistics, masquerade
connections, and multicast memberships

netstat -r
Interpretation: Display the kernel routing tables.


netstat-p
Interpretation: Show the PID and name of the program to which each socket belongs. A hyphen
is shown if the socket belongs to the kernel (e.g. a kernel service, or the
process has exited but the socket hasn't finished closing yet).


sudo tcpdump
Interpretation: prints out a description of the contents of packets on a network interface

38.host google.com
Interpretation: performs DNS lookups. It is normally used to convert names to IP addresses
and vice versa.

39.tracepath achsnepal.edu.np
Interpretation: traces path to a network host discovering MTU along this path

ifconfig
Interpretation: displays the status of the currently active interfaces.

route
Interpretation:show / manipulate the IP routing table

nslookup achsnepal.edu.np
Interpretation: query Internet domain name servers interactively

whois brainyquote.com
Interpretation: guess the right server to ask for the specified object. If no guess can be
made it will connect to whois.networksolutions.com for NIC handles or
whois.arin.net for IPv4 addresses and network names.

sudo apt-get update
Interpretation: resynchronize the package index files from their sources.

sudo apt-get upgrade
Interpretation: install the newest versions of all packages currently installed on the
system from the sources enumerated in /etc/apt/sources.list

sudo apt-get install sl
Interpretation: install package sl

sl
Interpretation: display animations aimed to correct users who accidentally enter sl instead
of ls

sudo -s
Interpretation: Run the shell specified by the SHELL environment variable if it is set or
the shell specified by the invoking user's password database entry.

exit
Interpretation: exit the current program.
